 F-235 Series
Service Manual
                              Scanner Specifications
Minimum Host Computer Specifications
•   Pentium IV CPU 1.7GHZ or higher
•   1 40GB hard drive to be used for the operating system, application programs, and storage. If
    IDE, it must be configured as Primary Master.
•   1 40GB hard drive capable of a sustained transfer rate of 30MB/sec. This is to be a dedicated
    drive for the scan data buffer. If IDE, it must either be a Secondary Master drive or con-
    nected using a serial ATA connection. Drive letter must be N:\ and it must NOT be format-
    ted. This should be a 7200rpm drive. See the “Disk Management” chapter for more
    information on configuring this drive.
•   Windows 2000, Service Pack 2
•   512MB of RAM
•   A motherboard with an integrated USB 2.0 controller as part of the motherboard chipset. A
    dedicated port is recommended. USB 2.0 hubs have not been fully tested for reliability.
•   Microsoft USB 2.0 drivers.
•   SCSI CD-RW drive if both hard drives are IDE. (Plextor 12/10/32S or 40/10/40S recom-
    mended, and required for Kodak Picture CD support.) If using a serial ATA hard drive, the
    CD-R can be an IDE drive. (Plextor CD-R PX-W48, 52/24/52A, or PlexWriter Premium rec-
    ommended, and required for Kodak Picture CD support)
•   1.5GB Pagefile.(Virtual Memory)

Power
•   Auto-switching power supply for 100-240VAC
•   50-60Hz Input voltage frequency
•   Standard 3 conductor IEC 320 male power cable connector

Contents of Box
•   F-235 Film Scanner
•   6ft. USB 2.0 Cable
•   Software and User Manual CD
•   Power Cord

Size
•   17.3”W x 13.6”H x 12.6”D with cover on

Resolutions
       There are three supported resolutions.

                                   4Base          1000 x 1500
                                   8Base          1400 x 2100



Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                            1
                                    16Base         2000 x 3000

Light Source
       The F-235 uses a 50 Watt Solux Halogen light bulb. During scans, the bulb operate at
standard voltage. After completing a scan operation, the bulb power will be reduced to a lower
voltage to increase the bulb’s life expectancy. This bulb’s normal life should be three months of
operation.
Note: Using an alternative light source will cause image quality problems and
                      will void the scanner’s warranty.

Film Types and Variations
•   The F-235 is designed to scan film in 35mm and 24mm (APS) formats. Color negative, color
    reversal (positive or slide) film, black and white, C-41 processed black and white films are all
    supported.
•   APS film can only be scanned once removed from the canister for the F-235 and F-235 Plus,
    but cannot be cut into strips. All APS formats (C, H, and P) will scan only in full frame (H)
    format.
•   The F-235C can scan APS film while still in the APS canister.
•   35mm cut strips are supported in sizes from 2 frames to 40 frames. However, to ensure DX
    code reading, the strips must be a minimum of 3 frames.
•   Mounted slides are not supported.


DX Code Reading
•   35mm DX codes are read using the ISO 1007 specifications and are used by the host manager.
•   APS encoding will only be read by a full roll of film, and will not be read from an APS strip.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                              2
                                     Scanner Theory
       The F-235 film scanner is a stand alone USB 2.0 device, designed as a high speed scan-
ning solution. It is highly flexible, and can easily be integrated into a larger digital photo process-
ing system, or operated as an independent scanning device, attached to a host computer.


Optical Tower
       The scanner is designed around an optical tower, which suspends the lens and CCD
assembly above the film track. Both the lens and CCD assembly are on stepper motors that move
up and down on these stepper bars. There are four sets of stepper positions: one for 8 Base and 16
Base focus positions for 35MM and APS. Each of these positions are determined by calibration,
performed during manufacturing or by authorized service technicians. 4 Base scan resolution uses
16 Base resolution that uses CCD binning to create a lower resolution. The client interface soft-
ware moves the lens and CCD assembly into the proper position after the user selects the resolu-
tion in which to scan.


Light Assembly
       At the bottom of the optical tower is a small piece of glass suspended by two set screws.
This glass piece is the illuminator, or light transfer bar. The film track transports the film under-
neath the optical tower, but above the light transfer bar. The light transfer bar illuminates the
scanning area. The CCD chip senses the light and converts it into digital information.
       The light assembly houses the Digital ICE hardware. This hardware is responsible for
removing scratches and defects in the film. When a four channel scan is initialized, this hardware
activates. The software then looks at the fourth channel (defect channel) and removes defects
from the RGB channels.


CCD Chip and Assembly
       The CCD chip is trilinear--it senses three colors: red, green, and blue. A skew in the CCD
assembly will cause scanned images to be skewed. The result would turn “Skew” into “Skew.”
(The image would appear slanted, as the italicized “skew” demonstrates.) A skew adjustment pro-
cedure is performed during the scanner’s original manufacturing calibration process to properly
align the CCD board. Epoxy is used to glue the CCD board into the proper skew position.



Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                               3
       The CCD board requires a tilt adjustment be done to ensure that the distance from one end
of the CCD is the same as the opposite end. If these distances are not equal, then one edge of a
scanned picture will be in focus, and the other edge of the picture will be out of focus. This proce-
dure is performed during the scanner’s original manufacturing calibration process. Epoxy is used
to glue the CCD board into the proper tilt position.
       As the film is scanned, the data is converted into raw digital data through the 14 bit A/D
chip on the CCD board. This data is transferred from the CCD board to the USB interface board
and sent to the host PC. The host computer saves this data in a buffer in a specific path (typically
the N:\, which is an unformatted partition), where it is later accessed by the client.


Lens
       The lens is mounted to a bracket that can swivel from side to side and forward and back-
ward. During the manufacturing process a lens alignment fixture is used to position the lens in the
proper alignment with the film track and CCD chip. Once the proper position is determined, the
lens mount bracket is glued so the lens cannot move after the manufacturing calibration process.


Lamp Board
       The lamp board, on the back side of the scanner regulates the lamp’s power and tempera-
ture. There is a temperature monitor attached to the heat sink on the lamp board that turns off the
power to the light bulb if the temperature reaches 72 degrees Celsius. It is important that the scan-
ner is well ventilated so the scanner does not overheat and turn off the bulb. Overheating can
cause damage to the scanner.
       The lamp board also connects to the LED board, for Digital ICE operation. The thin rib-
bon cable is used to communicate between these two boards.


Motor Control and DX Board
       The motor control and DX functions of the scanner are all performed by the largest circuit
board in the scanner. It is located on the undercarriage of the frame. This board controls all
motors: lens and CCD steppers, film guides, film rollers, and the filter wheel.
       The lens and CCD steppers move the lens and CCD to predefined focus positions, as out-
lined in the “Optical Tower” section. The film guides open and close the film gate to accommo-




Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                             4
date 35MM and APS (24MM) film.               The film rollers grip the film using rubber o-rings to
transport the film through the film track.

Motor Speed
      The calibration wizard sets the film speed in the final phase of the calibration procedure.
Each resolution, film type, and 3 channel and 4 channel setting must have its own film speed.
These settings, as all calibration settings are stored in the EEPROM of the scanner, on the USB
board in the scanner.

Filter Wheel
       The filter wheel has three positions: negative, positive, and block. The negative position
moves the filter wheel to position a negative filter in front of the light assembly. It produces a
cyan light. The positive position moves a positive filter in front of the light assembly, producing a
white light.
       Each position has a unique function. The block position blocks all light to the light assem-
bly. It is used for setting the offset while doing force corrections. The negative filter is used for
color negative film and C-41 processed black and white film. The positive filter is used for posi-
tive film and black and white film.

APS and 35MM Film Guides
      The film track is designed to default to 35MM size film. A stepper motor can contract the
film track to accommodate APS (24MM) film. The guides will open and close as the user deter-
mines the position by selecting the desired film type in the interface software.

DX Sensors
      The film track has DX sensors built into the assembly. These sensors are positioned so
they have the ability to read DX code on both sides of the film. The DX codes will report film
type and film specifier values. They also determine index numbers for each frame. To see require-
ments for DX code reading, please refer to the “Scanner Specifications” chapter.


USB Board
       The F-235 scanner communicates to a host PC via a USB 2.0 interface. The scanner has a
USB interface board built into it. This board communicates with the scanner, and then relays that
information to the host PC.


Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                              5
       The USB board has an EEPROM chip built into it to store calibration information. The
Calibration Wizard program writes all calibration data to this EEPROM chip. When the scanner
interface software is launched, this calibration data in the EEPROM is written to the Windows
registry. This means that a F-235 scanner will be properly calibrated and functional when attached
to any PC that meets the Computer Requirements outlined in the first chapter.


MOF Assembly
       The MOF reader extracts APS film from an APS cartridge and transports it through the
film transport assembly. The MOF assembly opens the APS cartridge door once it has been
inserted into the MOF door. Once the operator begins a scan operation, the film will move for-
ward until it is held by both rollers. The scan operation will then begin.
       The scanner will recognize the end of the roll of film and rewind the film. While rewind-
ing, the MOF reader will read the data from the film for the three different film aspect ratios (C,
H, and P). The cartridge door will be closed when the door is re-opened by the operator.




Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                            6
                      Connection Diagram




Pakon Part#124794-I     July 7, 2004       7
                             Hard Disk Configuration
       The F-235 software requires that there be a hard drive partition set up specifically for the
software to use. This drive needs to be the secondary master drive, configured as the N: drive, and
must NOT be formatted.
       Configure the drive as instructed below:

1. Right-click on “My Computer” and select “Manage.”
2. Click on “Disk Management” to begin configuring the drives.
3. Right-click on the un-allocated space on disk 1, which should be the secondary master drive.




4. The “Create Partition Wizard” will open. Click “Next” to begin.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                             8
5. Select “Primary Partition” and click “Next.”




6. Use the full size of the drive, unless making a Disaster Recovery partition.

A “Disaster Recovery” partition is used by Pakon, to back-up the C:\ to make a system recovery
option available. If no system back-up drive will be used, use the full size of the secondary drive
for the scanner buffer drive.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                             9
7. Assign this drive to be N:. Select N: and click “Next.”




8. It is imperative to NOT format this partition. Select “Do not format this partition.”




9. Review the settings on the new drive, to finish click “Next.”




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                         10
10. Verify that the Disk Management screen looks correct before closing the program.




Pakon Part#124794-I                 July 7, 2004                                       11
                                 Installing the F-235
The F-235 is a peripheral device. It must be connected to a computer that meets the required spec-
ifications listed on page 2 of this manual.

1. Clear a space near your computer system to place the F-235 scanner. The USB 2.0 cable must
   be able to reach the PC, so it cannot be more than 6 feet (2m) from the computer. There must
   also be 4 inches (10cm) clearance above and behind the scanner’s ventilation duct.

2. Connect the power cord to the power supply plug on the back of the scanner.




3. Connect the USB 2.0 cable to the back of the scanner.




4. Connect the USB 2.0 cable to the back of the computer, in a USB 2.0 port. Do not plug in to
   a USB 1.0 connector!




Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                           12
5. While the computer is on and Windows 2000 is loaded, turn the scanner power switch into the
   ‘on’ position.

6. Insert F-235 Software CD. The computer will prompt the user to locate the driver software.
   This driver software is located in the C:\Program Files\Pakon\F235Driver folder.




7. The install will ask for authorization to install the driver despite it not having been “digitally
   signed.” Yes must be selected for the driver to install.




8. After the driver is finished installing, verify that the scanner driver is properly installed, by
   viewing the scanner properties in the Device Manager under the heading, “Imaging Devices.”




Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                             13
9. Clean the F-235 from any dust that may be inside the scanner. Please refer to these procedures
   in the “Operator Maintenance” chapter.


BIOS Configuration
The following BIOS options are used on systems configured by Pakon, and are recommended to
be configured as outlined below.


                                       Option             Setting

                               Plug and Play O/S         Disable
                               AGP Aperture Size         32MB
                               PCI Latency Timer         248
                               ACPI Suspend State        S1 State
                               USB Boot                  Disable
                               PXE Boot to Lan           Disable
                               PCI to DRAM Prefetch      Disable

SCSI BIOS Configuration
These settings should be followed in the SCSI BIOS of the SCSI card used in the Pakon computer
system, if SCSI is present.


                                        Option               Setting

                            Sync. Transfer Rates             10
                            Bootable CD-ROM                  Disable
                            BIOS Support for Int. 13 Ext.    Disable




Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                           14
                            Operational Information
Powering On
       Power on the host PC, and allow it to finish loading Windows before turning the F-235
scanner on. This will ensure that the scanner can properly communicate with the host computer.

Operation and Film Insertion
       When scanning film, ensure the appropriate film type is selected in the scanner interface
software program supplied. Do not attempt to scan 35mm film when APS is selected, and like-
wise do not scan APS film when 35mm film has been selected.
        Inserting the film properly will ensure that the DX codes are read and that the fram-
ing will be done correctly. Insert the film with the emulsion up, DX Code to the back of the
scanner, and starting with the lowest number first, as shown below:




        Do not attempt to remove film from the scanner while the scanner motor is moving! This
will cause damage to both the film and the scanner.

APS Cartridge Handling
      The F-235C scanner has the ability to scan film from an APS cartridge without having to
manually remove the film from the cartridge.
1. Open the MOF door by pressing down on the button to the right of the door itself.




Pakon Part#124794-I                 July 7, 2004                                          15
2. Insert the cartridge with the film door facing the film track entrance.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                           16
3. Close the door by pushing the drawer forward until it clicks shut.




In the software interface program, select “APS”.

Calibration
       There are two types of calibration for the F-235.
       Color calibration is set during the manufacturing process, as well as any service that
involves the CCD or any optical filter. This is to be performed by trained and authorized service
personnel only.
       Scanner corrections are performed automatically. They consist of a series of steps per-
formed when the scanner is first turned on, as shown below:
• Start-up corrections
• Initial bulb warm-up
• Gain and exposure Control Corrections
• Run Time Corrections

Format Change
        The scanner will automatically change the film guide, lens position, CCD position, or
color filter position whenever one of the following steps take place:
• Film Format change between 35mm and APS
• Film type change between color negative, color reversal, and black and white
• Magnification Change (Change of scanning resolution)


Film Gate Change
        The film gate opens and closes depending on the size of the film being scanned. It will
open for 35mm film and close for APS film. This gate will open or close automatically when a
different film size is selected.




Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                          17
LED Indicator Lights


                               Power LED      Function

                               Solid Green    +5V is functioning
                               Off            +5V is not functioning


                              Status LED                 Function

                            Solid Green         Scanner Ready
                            Blinking Green      Scanner is Scanning
                            Blinking Yellow     Scanner is Calibrating
                            Blinking Red        Scanner Error
                            Off                 Scanner not Functioning




                                  APS LED              Function

                            Solid Green        Scanner in APS mode
                            Blinking Green     Scanner is Scanning
                            Blinking Red       APS mode Error
                            Off                Scanner in 35MM mode

Digital ICE
        Digital ICE is designed to assist in removing scratches, dust, and debris artifacts from
scanned film. It should be used as a complement to a photo lab’s normal cleaning procedures.
Customers are still advised to clean the floors and work surfaces regularly to keep the lab environ-
ment as dust-free as possible.
        It is also recommended to clean all film with a lint-free cloth before attempting to make
prints 8”x10” or higher.
        If a lab is having persistent dust problems, it is recommended to perform the following
regularly:
        •Clean all customer film with a lint-free cloth before scanning it.
        •When the scanner is turned off, cover it with a plastic, or lint-free cover.
        •Use a lint-free cloth daily to clean the cover of the scanner and the surface of the table it
          is positioned on.
        •Clean or replace the air filter on the back of the scanner once per week.



Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                             18
                                Operator Maintenance
Warning: These procedures require the operator to remove up to two of the three covers on
the scanner. Do not attempt to operate the scanner without these covers properly in place!


       WARNUNG: Bei diesen Verfahren muss der Bediener bis zu zwei der drei Abdeckungen am Scanner
       entfernen. Der Scanner darf nicht betrieben werden, wenn diese Abdeckungen nicht ordnungsgemäß
       angebracht sind!



       ATTENTION : au cours de ces procédures, vous devez ôter deux des trois couvercles du
       scanner. N'essayez pas de faire fonctionner le scanner sans que ces couvercles de
       protection soient correctement à leur place !


Dust cleaning of illuminator
        The F-235 is a precision optical device. A relatively smoke and dust free environment is
necessary. The scanner must be cleaned periodically to remove large collections of dust or debris
inside the scanner, on the illumination. This procedure is recommended to be performed every
two weeks. Software is designed to compensate for smaller collections of dust or debris, but
cleaning may be required. Digital ICE is only designed to complement the lab’s normal cleaning
procedures--which should include cleaning the floor and work surfaces regularly.
        Follow each step by a verification process to determine if the cleaning was effective. If the
verification determines that level of cleaning was ineffective, the next level is required.

1. Simple cleaning with compressed air and or lens brushes.
2. Cleaning with rubbing alcohol and a cotton swab.
3. Service call.

Cleaning the Illuminator with Compressed Air
1. Turn off the scanner.
2. Disconnect the USB and power cables.
3. Gently remove the side panel of scanner, by pulling back on it. It should snap out of place.




Pakon Part#124794-I                     July 7, 2004                                                    19
  Do not touch anything inside the scanner while the power is on. The cover is only off to
                  allow dust and debris to be blown out of the scanner.


       WARNUNG: Berühren Sie keine Bauteile innerhalb des Scanners, während das Gerät eingeschaltet ist. Die
         Abdeckung wird nur deshalb abgenommen, damit Staub und Verschmutzungen aus dem Inneren des
                                   Scanners heraus geblasen werden können.



         ATTENTION : ne touchez aucun élément interne du scanner lorsque ce dernier est sous
        tension. Le couvercle est ouvert pour permettre d'éliminer poussière et débris du scanner.
4. Connect power to the scanner.
5. Turn the scanner on.
6. Remove the small film path cover.




7. Aim the hose of a can of compressed air into the film path--aiming for the clear piece of glass
   in the middle.


Pakon Part#124794-I                     July 7, 2004                                                  20
8. It may be beneficial to insert a strip of film into the scanner before blowing it out. This will
    focus all the air onto the light transfer bar, and should dislodge any dust or debris.
9. When finished, put the film path cover back in place.
       Turn off the scanner immediately when finished cleaning the scanner!
10. Turn off the scanner and unplug the power cable.
11. Replace the side cover by snapping into place.
12. Plug in the USB and power cables.

Cleaning Illuminator with Cotton Swab
         CAUTION--Be Careful not to scratch or damage the top of the glass light bar!
1.   Turn off the scanner.
1.   Disconnect the USB and power cables.
2.   Gently remove the side cover.
3.   Using a long cotton swab, dabbed in isopropyl alcohol, clean the illuminator bar inside the
     film track assembly. (The illuminator bar is a small piece of glass, sitting upright.)




Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                             21
4. After cleaning the illumation bar, replace side cover and turn on.

Light Bulb Replacement -- Click to Watch Video
        The light bulb will have a nominal life of 100 working days or longer, depending on cer-
tain variables. This number is based on the following assumptions:
• 6 working days per week
• 10 hours per day

       Changing the light bulb does not require any special tools.


Replacing the Scanner Light Bulb
 CAUTION: The lamp may be hot. Allow the bulb to cool before attempting to replace it.

    CAUTION: Use gloves when replacing the scanner light bulb. Fingerprints can damage
                                    the light bulb.


        VORSICHT: Die Lampe kann heiß sein. Lassen Sie die Glühlampe abkühlen, bevor Sie sie austauschen.
         Berühren Sie die Scanner-Glühlampe nur mit Handschuhen. Fingerabdrücke können die Glühlampe
                                                 beschädigen.




Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                                 22
             ATTENTION : l'ampoule risque d'être chaude. Attendez qu'elle refroidisse avant
          d'essayer de la remplacer. Utilisez des gants pour remplacer l'ampoule du scanner. Les
                                empreintes digitales peuvent l'endommager.
1.   Close all scanning software.
2.   Turn off the scanner.
3.   Disconnect the USB and power cables.
4.   Gently remove the side cover by pulling on it. It will snap out of place.




5. Gently pull off the back cover. It should snap off much like the side cover.




Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                         23
6. Locate the small lever, just to the back of the bulb.




       Gloves must be worn to ensure the bulb is not damaged by dirt or skin oils.
7. With one hand, gently pull the lever towards the back of the scanner.
8. As the lever is pulled, the bulb will be pushed up, and partially out of its wire harness.
9. Once the bulb has been pushed up far enough, use your other hand to gently remove the bulb
   from the harness.

 WARNING: Replacing the bulb with an unauthorized bulb will void the manufacturer’s
                warranty and can severely damage the scanner!

10. Orient the new light bulb so that the largest, or widest part of the bell shape is facing the front
    of the scanner. And place the smaller end with the prongs, facing the back.
11. Rest the wide end of the bulb on the top edge of the wire harness, do not push or force it
    downward.
12. Spin or rotate the bulb so that the two prongs line up with the grooves in the lamp ballast.




Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                              24
13. Gently apply downward pressure equally to both the front and the back of the bulb.
14. Slide the bulb into place, until it fits securely.
15. Replace the back cover by snapping it into place.
16. Replace the side cover by snapping it back into place.
17. Plug in USB and power cables.
18. Turn scanner on, and allow to warm up before using again.


                                Cleaning the Fan Filter
                                        Click to Watch Video

       The fan filter keeps dust from inside the scanner. This filter needs to be cleaned every two
weeks, or more depending on the conditions of the lab environment.

1. Close scanner software.
2. Turn off the scanner.
3. Disconnect USB and power cables.
4. Gently remove side cover by pulling on it. It should snap off.
5. Gently remove back cover by pulling on it. It too, should snap off.
Be Careful not to touch anything other than the fan and filter assembly. Many pieces on the
             back of the scanner will be hot to the touch, and are to be avoided.


           VORSICHT: Berühren Sie keine Bauteile, mit Ausnahme des Ventilators und der Filter. Zahlreiche
              Bauteile an der Rückseite des Scanners sind heiß und dürfen daher nicht berührt werden.




Pakon Part#124794-I                      July 7, 2004                                                 25
        ATTENTION : ne touchez rien d'autre que le module ventilateur et filtre. De nombreux
             éléments situés à l'arrière du scanner sont chauds, évitez de les toucher.
6. Locate the Fan filter (123816). It is located on the back of the scanner, just under the plastic
   fan cover.




7. Pull straight back on the plastic fan cover until it comes free from the scanner housing.




8. Remove the filter from inside the cover, and rinse with tap water; replace if necessary.
   Replace the filter only after it has dried completely.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                             26
9. Re-attach the fan cover by applying moderate pressure to each of the four sides, until it snaps
   back in to place.

Cleaning the Film Track
       It is recommended to clean the film track every two weeks, along with the illumination
cleaning. Keeping the film track clean will ensure that DX code reading remains reliable. It will
also maintain the proper motor speed for each resolution.
1. Remove the film path cover.
2. Position the tip of the compressed air hose on both sides of the film track entrance, and blow.




3. Position the tip of the compressed air hose on both sides of the film track exit, and blow.




4. After cleaning the film track, run the ‘Film Track Test’ in the client interface program.
5. Verify the scanner is properly reading DX codes by scanning a roll of film.



Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                               27
MOF Head Cleaning
        The MOF heads on F-235C models require monthly cleaning. These heads read the mag-
netic data from APS films.
1. Remove the film guide assembly piece shown below:




2. Pinching the tab on both sides of the film guide assembly.




3. This will expose the MOF heads on the scanner.



Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                    28
4. Use a cotton swab with superpolite (rubbing) alcohol to gently clean the MOF heads.




5. Clean the film path guide with compressed air.




Exterior Surface Cleaning
        Clean surfaces with lint-free cloths or mild, non-abrasive spray type cleaners, where the
cleaner is sprayed onto the cleaning cloth and not directly onto the equipment. Perform this type
of cleaning only with the equipment disconnected and powered down.




Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                          29
                                        Field Service
Service and Repair
        The scanner has the ability to determine failures at or below the FRU (Field Replaceable
Unit) level, in most cases. Only qualified service personnel are authorized to service the F-235
scanner.

                                  Field Replaceable Units

                        Lamp Board Fan Assembly(124804)
                        Motor Control Board (123677)
                        Filter Wheel Assembly (124558)
                        Lamp Holder Assembly (124805)
                        Film Path Assembly (124560)
                        Film Path Assembly, F-235 Plus, F-235C (123943)
                        Blower Assembly (124803)
                        Bulb (123841)
                        LED Board (123691)
                        USB Board (123681)
                        CCD Power Module (123685)
                        CCD Board (123679)
                        Magnetic Head Module (If Applicable)

Removing Covers - Click to Watch Video
Removing the F-235 covers is made easy by a locking system, that eliminates the need for all but
three screws.

1.   Turn off power on scanner.
2.   Disconnect all cables from scanner.
3.   Remove film catch basket from side of scanner.
4.   Gently pull on the side of the scanner. There are three locks that will snap out of place.




Pakon Part#124794-I                     July 7, 2004                                              30
5. Gently pull off the back of the scanner. There are three locks that will snap out of place.




6. The fan on the left side of the back side of the scanner will need to be taken off to access one
   of the three screws for the front cover. Use a phillips screw driver to remove the two screws
7. Gently, but firmly pull up on the fan to dislodge the sealant from the base of the scanner. Put
   the fan to the side of the scanner.
8. Remove the three screws from the back of the scanner.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                               31
9. Remove the cover in the front on top of the black film entry.
10. Loosen the two screws holding the film entry point in place; and remove the film entry point.
11. Take off the front cover.

Replacing the Lamp Board Assembly - Click to Watch Video
1. Turn off power on scanner.
2. Disconnect all cables from scanner.
3. Remove the four screws holding the lamp board in position. There is one screw in each corner
   of the board.




Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                           32
4. Disconnect all the cables attached to the lamp board.
5. Mount the new lamp board assembly into position.




6. Attach all cables to the lamp board.
7. Mount the lamp board assembly back in to place.
8. Replace all covers.

Replacing the Motor Control Board - Click to Watch Video
Important: This procedure requires that the Calibration Wizard program be used. If this
program is inaccessible, DO NOT attempt this procedure!

1. Turn off power on scanner.
2. Disconnect all cables from scanner.
3. Remove the bottom plate of the scanner. There is a screw in each corner, and two phillips
   screws as well.
4. Removing the bottom plate will expose the USB board, motor control board, and filter wheel.




Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                       33
5. Each wire connector is labeled with the board it should connect to, and which pin block.
6. Disconnect each cable from the motor control board.
7. Remove all the screws holding the motor control board in place.
8. Remove the motor control board.
9. Mount the new motor control board into place.
10. Plug in all cables.
11. Mount bottom plate into place.
12. Connect USB and power cables, and turn scanner on.
13. In the calibration wizard, run the “Film Track Test” before attempting a scan. Repeat if nece-
    sary.

Replacing the Lamp Holder - Click to Watch Video
1.   Turn the scanner off.
2.   Unplug the USB and power cables from the back of the F-235 scanner.
3.   Remove the side and back covers from the scanner.
4.   Allow lamp to cool down before attempting to replace the lamp holder.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                           34
5. Remove the light bulb from the lamp holder.
6. Disconnect the lamp holder power cable from the lamp board.
7. Unscrew the four screws that mount the lamp holder to the scanner frame.
8. Remove the lamp holder.
9. Mount the new lamp holder into place, and screw in the four screws.
10. Insert light bulb into lamp holder.
11. Re-connect the lamp holder power cable in the lamp board.
12. Replace the back and side covers.
13. Plug in the USB and power cables.
14. Turn scanner on.

Replacing the USB Board - Click to Watch Video
Important: This procedure requires that the Calibration Wizard program be used. If this
program is inaccessible, DO NOT attempt this procedure!

1.   Turn the scanner off.
2.   Disconnect USB and power cables.
3.   Remove the side cover.
4.   Turn scanner onto the exposed side.
5.   Unscrew the four screws holding the bottom plate in place.
6.   Remove the bottom plate from scanner.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                  35
7. Disconnect the wires attached to the USB board.
8. Unscrew the USB board from the scanner frame.
9. Mount new USB board onto frame, and tighten all the screws.
10. Reconnect all wires back to the USB board.
11. Mount bottom plate into place, and tighten the four screws.
12. Put the scanner back into place, and replace the side cover.
13. Plug in USB and power cables.
14. Turn the scanner on.
15. If all the calibration data is still stored in the Windows registry, full calibration is not required.
    Run the Scannercure.exe program in C:\Program Files\Pakon\F235Driver to restore the cali-
    bration data from the Windows Registry to the Scanner EEPROM.
16. If the calibration data from the Windows Registry is unavailable, the scanner will have to
    undergo complete re-calibration using the two calibration kits available from Pakon. The part
    numbers for these kits are 125096 and 125097.

Replacing the Filter Wheel Assembly - Click to Watch Video
Important: This procedure requires that the Calibration Wizard program be used. If this
program is inaccessible, DO NOT attempt this procedure!

1.   Turn the scanner off.
2.   Disconnect USB and power cables.
3.   Remove the side cover.
4.   Turn scanner onto the exposed side.
5.   Unscrew the four screws holding the bottom plate in place, along with the two middle screws.
6.   Remove the bottom plate from scanner.
7.   Disconnect the filter wheel cable from the motor control board.
8.   Unscrew and remove filter wheel assembly from scanner frame.




Pakon Part#124794-I                      July 7, 2004                                               36
9. Mount the new filter wheel in place and tighten the screws to hold it in place.
10. Reconnect the filter wheel cable to the motor control board.
11. Mount bottom plate into place, and tighten the four screws.
12. Put the scanner back into place, and replace the side cover, along with the two middle screws.
13. Plug in USB and power cables.
14. Turn the scanner on.
15. Run the calibration wizard program in C:\Program Files\Pakon\Calibration Wizard\.
16. Run the 64 color matrix generation portion of the calibration wizard.

Replacing the Film Path Assembly - Click to Watch Video
Important: This procedure requires that the Calibration Wizard program be used. If this
program is inaccessible, DO NOT attempt this procedure!

1.  Turn the scanner off.
2.  Unplug the USB and power cables from the back of the F-235 scanner.
3.  Remove all three covers.
4.  Turn scanner onto the exposed side.
5.  Unscrew the six screws holding the bottom plate in place.
6.  Remove the bottom plate from scanner.
7.  Disconnect all film path assembly cables from the motor control board. (J2, J3, J6, J7, J12,
    J16, and J17)
8. Turn the scanner into its proper orientation.
9. Remove the light shield from the optical tower by unscrewing the three screws holding it in
    place.
10. Unscrew the four screws (3 for the F-235 Plus) holding the film path assembly on the scanner
    frame. (Do not remove the screw in the back--only loosen it enough to remove the film track.)
11. Remove the film path from the scanner.
12. Replace the film path assembly, shifting it all the way to the left.
13. Tighten the mounting screws into place.
14. Turn the scanner onto its side and reconnect all film path cables on the motor control board.


Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                           37
15. Replace the bottom plate, and secure it in place with the four screws, along with the two mid-
    dle screws.
16. Turn scanner into its proper orientation.
    F-235 Plus and F-235C Only:
    The drive belt tension is set properly when the top drive wheel is turned, and the bottom drive
    wheel belt moves freely over the drive wheel without moving the wheel.
17. Replace the light shield on the optical tower, and tighten all three screws holding it in place.
18. Replace the three covers.
19. Reconnect the USB and power cables.
20. Turn the scanner on.
21. Run the Calibration Wizard program and perform the “magnification” portions of the calibra-
    tion.

Replacing the Blower Assembly - Click to Watch Video
1. Turn the scanner off.
2. Unplug the USB and power cables from the back of the F-235 scanner.
3. Remove the side and back covers from the scanner.




4. Disconnect the blower power from the lamp board.
5. Unscrew the blower assembly from the frame.
6. Remove the blower assembly, and replace with new blower assembly.
7. Mount the blower onto the frame with the two phillips head screws.
8. Reconnect the blower power cable to the lamp board.
9. Replace the back and side covers of the scanner.
10. Reconnect the USB and power cables to the scanner.
11. Turn the scanner on.

Replacing the CCD Power Module
1. Turn the scanner off.
2. Unplug the USB and power cables from the back of the F-235 scanner.
3. Remove all three covers from the scanner.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                            38
4. Disconnect the power and sync cables from the CCD power module board.
5. Unscrew the CCD power module board from the scanner chassis.
6. Remove the circuit board from the scanner.
7. Mount the new CCD power module board to the scanner chassis.
8. Connect the sync and power cables to the CCD power module board.
9. Replace all three covers.
10. Connect USB 2.0 and power cables.
11. Turn scanner on.

Replacing the LED Board
     Important: This procedure requires that the Calibration Wizard program be used. If
     this program is inaccessible, DO NOT attempt this procedure!

1. Turn the scanner off.
2. Unplug the USB and power cables from the back of the F-235 scanner.
3. Remove all three covers from the scanner.
4. Remove the light shield from the optical tower by unscrewing the three screws holding it in
   place.
5. Remove the film path assembly from the base of the scanner, by removing the four screws
   mounting it to the scanner frame. Please see “Replacing the Film Path Assembly” portion of
   this chapter to perform this procedure. It is unnecessary to do more than move the film path
   assembly out of the way of accessing the LED board--it is not necessary to disconnect the
   cables.




Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                          39
6. The LED board should now be exposed.




7. Unplug the thin ribbon cable from the right side of the LED board.
8. Unscrew the one screw mounting the LED board to the illumination assembly.
9. Replace the defective LED board with a new LED board.
10. Replace the film path assembly.
11. Replace the light shield on the optical tower.
12. Replace the covers.
13. Connect the USB 2.0 and power cables.
14. Turn the scanner “On.”
15. Run the Calibration Wizard program.
16. Perform the “Magnification Calculation” portion of the calibration wizard.

Replacing the CCD Board
1.   Turn the scanner off.
2.   Unplug the USB and power cables from the back of the F-235 scanner.
3.   Remove all three covers.
4.   Remove the light shield from the optical tower by unscrewing the three screws holding it in
     place.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                          40
5. Remove the four screws mounting the CCD board to the CCD support.




6. Disconnect the four cables from the CCD board.
7. The board is still connected to the CCD chip, which is mounted to the CCD support.
8. Carefully pry the CCD board from the support mount.
9. Install the replacement CCD board.
10. Screw the four screws into place.
11. Connect the four cables, use a plastic zip tie to mount the thin ribbon cable to the CCD sup-
    port.
12. Reconnect the USB and power cables.
13. Turn the scanner on.
14. Run the Calibration Wizard program and perform the magnification, tilt, skew, and Maxwell
    portions of the calibration.
15. Replace the three covers when finished.




Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                           41
Setup1300
        Setup1300.exe is an important diagnostic tool used to verify basic hardware functionality.
This program is accessible in the Pakon software directory, which will vary depending on the cli-
ent interface software in use. Generally it is in C:\Program Files\Pakon\Setup1300.exe.
        This program should be used to ensure that the following hardware is functioning prop-
erly:


                     Hardware                       Test Function

                 Filter Wheel         Spinning and stopping in proper positions
                 APS/35MM Gate        Opening and Closing
                 Lens Stepper         Moving up and Down
                 CCD Stepper          Moving up and Down
                 Motor                Moves forwards and backwards
                 Lamp                 Turns on and Off

       Each button reports its function when the mouse cursor sits on top of it.




Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                           42
Command          Function            Command                   Function

g         start filmstrip motor      “            move right cursor -100
h         stop filmstrip motor       L            move right cursor -10
f         move filmstrip forward     l            move right cursor -1
r         move filmstrip reverse     ;            move right cursor +1
@         gain/offset correction     :            move right cursor +10
!         fixed pattern correction   ‘            move right cursor +100
+         focus calibration          HI           lamp high
          magnification distance     LO           lamp low
<         move CCD down 100          OFF          lamp off
{         move CCD down 10                        calculate film sizes
[         move CCD down 1            Rese         lamp reset
]         move CCD up 1              &            skew calibration
}         move CCD up 10             REG          load calibration data
>         move CCD up 100            SNS          calibrate insertion sensors
I         move left cursor -100      NEG          set negative filter
J         move left cursor -10       POS          set positive filter
j         move left cursor -1        BLK          set block filter
k         move left cursor +1        MT1          stepper/drive life test
K         move left cursor +10       MT2          Film gate/filter wheel life test
i         move left cursor +100      Lens Test    lens stepper validation test
x         move lens down 100         CCD Test     CCD stepper validation test
c         move lens down 10          APS          set filmguides to APS
v         move lens down 1           35MM         set filmguides to 35MM
b         move lens up 1             IR ON        Digital ICE on
n         move lens up 10            IR Off       Digital ICE off
m         move lens up 100
“         move right cursor -100



Pakon Part#124794-I                July 7, 2004                                      43
Appropriate Uses
Deceiving Information
        Setup1300 is a useful tool, however, it can be misunderstood very easily. In the picture of
setup1300 shown above, the left side of the three color channels appears to be erroneous. Below
there is a small cross-section of this errata. Though this does not appear correct, this is not a prob-
lem. The CCD chip is being flooded with light from the light transfer bar, this will not be the case
when film is inside the scanner.
        Keep this in mind when using setup1300 to diagnose problems. Not everything visible in
setup1300 can be used for troubleshooting.




Focused Resolutions
There are three resolutions for the F-235 scanner. There are only two stepper positions, however.
The 4 Base resolution uses the same stepper positions as the 16 Base resolution. A focused scan-
ner, with a Pakon Alignment strip will look similar to the following setup1300 images.

                                  16 Base 35MM Color Negative




Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                              44
                               16 Base 35MM Color Reversal

     Note how the color channels are all lower than that of the ‘color negative’ display.




                               8 Base 35MM Color Negative

      Note how the 8 Base scan uses a smaller portion of the CCD chip than 16 Base.




Pakon Part#124794-I                July 7, 2004                                             45
                                8 Base 35MM Color Reversal
       8 Base Color Reversal color channels should be lower than 8 BaseColor Negative.




Lens Stepper Test
The lens test function is a great way to ensure that the lens stepper is moving correctly. To use
this function:
1. Move lens stepper to 2000 using the ‘x’ key.
2. Click on the “LENS TEST” button.
3. The lens stepper will move one step at a time until it reaches the home position.
4. Setup1300 will report the number of steps it took to reach the home position. This number
    should be equal to the stepper position (2000) before the “LENS TEST” button was clicked.

CCD Stepper Test
The CCD Test function, like the Lens Test function, is a great way to ensure that the CCD stepper
is moving correctly. To use this function:
1. Move CCD stepper to 1200 using the ‘<’ key.
2. Click on the “CCD TEST” button.
3. The CCD stepper will move one step at a time until it reaches the home position.
4. Setup1300 will report the number of steps it took to reach the home position. This number
    should be equal to the stepper position (1200) before the “CCD TEST” button was clicked.




Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004                                            46
Lens Positioning Verification
This will test that the lens is properly aligned. If the scanner fails, the scanner will have to be ser-
viced at a service depot.
1. Click on the “@” button.
2. Select 8 Base 35 Color Negative.
3. Click the “LO” button to turn the lamp into low power mode.
4. Click on “NEG” to move the filter wheel to the negative position.
5. Insert a clear piece of color negative film.
6. Apply light pressure to each side of the lens, and make sure that none of the color channels
    drop.

APS/35MM Film Gate Verification
This test will ensure that the film gate is opening and closing properly.
1. Click on the “APS” button.
2. Observe the film gate close to the APS position.
3. Click the “35MM” button.
4. Observe the film gate open to the 35MM position.
5. Repeat this procedure ten times to verify functionality.

Drive Motor Verification
This test will ensure that the motor is functioning properly.
1. Click the “g” button.
2. Observe the motor start.
3. Click the “h” button.
4. Observe the motor stop.
5. Repeat this ten times to verify functionality.

Lamp Verification
This test will ensure that the motor is functioning properly.
1. Click the “HI” button.
2. Observe the lamp turn on.
3. Click the “LO” button.
4. Observe the lamp dim.
5. Click the “OFF” button.
6. Observe the lamp turn off.

Filter Wheel Verification
This test will ensure that the filter wheel is moving into the three different positions properly.
1. Click the “HI” button.
2. The lamp should turn on.
3. Click the “NEG” button.
4. Observe the color of the illuminator turn cyan.
5. Click the “POS” button.



Pakon Part#124794-I                     July 7, 2004                                              47
6. Observe the color of the illuminator turn white.
7. Click the “BLK” button.
8. There should be no light shining from the illuminator.




Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004           48
                                    Troubleshooting
Basics
        The scanner will not work properly unless the scanner is turned on after Windows 2000
has finished the loading process. Ensure this is done before attempting more advanced trouble-
shooting.

 Error Logs
        There are four primary error logs generated by the scanner software. These error logs are a
very important tool to determine the cause of any reported error codes. When contacting technical
support, it is advisable to provide these logs to ensure a more informed response. Dealers and dis-
tributors can request a list of the error codes with information on troubleshooting them.
        These logs can be located in C:\Program Files\Pakon\TLA COM Server.
        These logs include:

   PakonErrorLogMain
      Logs any errors associated with scanner communications with the host PC.
   PakonErrorLogScan
      Logs any errors associated with the scan process.
   PakonErrorLogSave
      Logs any errors associated with the save process.
   PakonErrorLogPI
      Logs any errors associated with the color correction process.

Skipping Lamp Warm-up and Calibrations
       It is useful to have the ability to disable the lamp warm-up during startup. This should only
be done for troubleshooting purposes. Using this option can cause erratic image quality issues.
Use the registry editor to disable this registry key:

       [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Pakon\TLA\Scan\Test]
       UseLampColdStart=0

Error Code 1002 or 1006
      These two error codes relate to the speed of the computer hardware. Verify that the host
PC meets the requirements outlined in the “Specifications” chapter.

Error Code 1003 (Lost Sync)
       Attach grounding straps to film track. Contact Pakon technical support for further infor-
mation.

Error Code 3016
       Verify that there is an N:\ drive is left unformatted, and it is a minimum of 5GB.



Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                            49
Error: EC_PFS_FileSystemExists (Error Code 3001)
        The N: is formatted. The N: partition cannot be formatted. Re-create this partition using
the instructions in the “Hard Disk Configuration” chapter of this manual.

Error Code 3013
        Buffer drive, (N:) is bad. Replace this drive partition.

Scanner will not stop scanning.
        Change this registry key:

       "HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Pakon\TLA\Scan\Test\DriverSimultaneous-
Packets" to 1.

EC_WIN_SetProcessWorkingSetSize
     The operator does not have Administrative privileges, or does not have enough available
RAM. 512MB is required, as outlined in the “Specifications” chapter.

         Also, try increasing the ‘scheduling priority’ for all users:
1.   Go to the Control Panel.
2.   Double-click on “Administrative Tools.”
3.   Double-click on “Local Security Policy.”
4.   Select “Local Policies.”
5.   Select “User Rights Assignment.”
6.   Select “Increase Scheduling Priority” on the right side of the window.
7.   Add “Everyone” to the list.




        Decrease the “Ringtail Bytes” as well:
        [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Pakon\PSI F-235\Scanner Settings]
        Set:
        DriverRingTailBytes to 0x800000
        ProcessedRingTailBytes to 0x400000.




Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                        50
Images Stretched
        Blow out the DX sensors with compressed air. If that does not help:

        The Calibration Wizard program is required to perform this procedure.

1.   Run the calibration wizard, located in C:\Program Files\Pakon\Calibwiz235\Calibwiz235.exe.
2.   Click on the button on the bottom left corner of the calibration window.
3.   Select “Film Speed Adjustment.”
4.   Follow the on-screen instructions to set the motor speed and framing adjustment.

Images out of Focus
        The Calibration Wizard program is required to perform this procedure.

1. Run the calibration wizard, located in C:\Program Files\Pakon\Calibwiz235\Calibwiz235.exe.
2. Ensure there are no cables blocking the home stepper positions on the scanner.




3. Run the “Magnification Calculation” steps in the calibration wizard.

Images not Framed Properly
        Blow out the DX sensors with compressed air. If that does not improve it:

        The Calibration Wizard program is required to perform this procedure.

1.   Run the calibration wizard, located in C:\Program Files\Pakon\Calibwiz235\Calibwiz235.exe.
2.   Click on the button on the bottom left corner of the calibration window.
3.   Select “Motor Speed.”
4.   Follow the on-screen instructions to set the motor speed and framing adjustment.

Image is out of focus in part of frame
        The Calibration Wizard program is required to perform this procedure.

        If this is a problem on every roll of film, the ‘Tilt Adjustment’ will need to be run in the
calibration wizard.



Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                            51
        The problem is that the CCD chip is not parallel with the film--part of the CCD chip is
focused, and part of it is out of focus. The ‘tilt adjustment’ will level the CCD board and put it in
parallel with the film and light transport.

Scanning stops after one frame
       The scanner calibrations may need to be re-done every two hours because the lamp tem-
perature may vary throughout the day.

DX code reading is not working
        The film track should be cleaned every two weeks to ensure proper DX code reading. This
procedure can be found in the “Operator Service” chapter in this manual. When finished, run the
'Track Test” calibration in the client interface program.
        This requires a four frame strip of film with DX codes on it. Be sure to insert the film
emulsion up, starting with the lowest number first, with the DX codes to the back of the scanner.
        If DX code reading does not improve after cleaning and running the client film track test,
the film track test should be run using the Calibration Wizard program.

Black images
        Black images are usually caused by one of two problems. Firstly, the light shield has a
removable piece for cleaning the lens. The screw holding this light shield in place is a thumb
screw, and can come loose if shaken during shipment. Ensure this light shield is properly mounted
and is not loose.




        A fuse on the LED board can be damaged causing this board to flood the CCD board with
infrared light and will cause scanned images to appear black. To test this, unplug the LED cable
on either the LED board, or the lamp board.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                             52
       Removing this cable will remove the defect channel from being used. If the scanner scans




properly after removing this defect channel, the LED board will need to be replaced.

‘1155: File C:\INSTMSIW.EXE was not found’ error when installing PSI
      The Windows Installer program is not installed on the host PC. Download the installer
from Microsoft’s website, or from www.pakon.com.
      http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/release.asp?releaseid=32832&NewList=1

Noritsu2611.txt Error Log File
        PSI will create an error log file in the C:\Program Files\Pakon\PSI\IQ\Logs folder to
report any errors in connecting to a Noritsu 2611 printer.
        There are three error levels--one, two, and three. A level one error is informational, report-
ing that the printer is warming up for example. A level two error is a warning, reporting that the
water tank needs to be filled or similar such errors. A level three error is reporting a failure in con-
necting to the Noritsu 2611 printer.
        The Noritsu needs to be turned on, with a SCSI cable connected between the printer and
the PC prior to the PC being booted, along with PSI 1.3 or above, and the printer must be in
“AUX2” mode for PSI to be able to print to a 2611 printer.

Black bar across top or bottom of image
       The Calibration Wizard program is required to perform this procedure.

        A black bar at the top or bottom of all images in all rolls of film is caused by the magnifi-
cation ratio not being set properly. This requires that the scanner be recalibrated using the Calibra-
tion Wizard. This program is only supplied to dealers trained in its use, and supplied with the
required calibration strips.

Magnetic APS data not being read
       Clean the MOF heads, as shown in the Operator Service Chapter. These heads should be
cleaned once per month. The film may not contain MOF data, or meet the APS specification.
Also, APS film is designed for a limited number of uses, try another film to ensure that this is not
the problem.

Lamp Current Running High
       The lamp filament may have shorted-out. Try replacing the light bulb.


Pakon Part#124794-I                     July 7, 2004                                              53
Lamp Error 16384
       Reload the lamp firmware--it is corrupt.

Heavy Cyan or Brown Color Cast
       The IR filter is probably burned out. Verify this by looking at it with the covers off. If it
appears to be ‘fogged’ it is bad and needs to be replaced.




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                            54
                             Regulatory Information




Warning:
        This is a class A product. In a domestic environment this product may cause radio interfer-
ence in which case the user may be required to take adequate measures.

Note:
        This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class A digital
device, pursuant to part 15 of the FCC rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable pro-
tection against harmful interference when the equipment is operated in a commercial environ-
ment. This equipment generates, uses and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed
and used in accordance with the instruction manual, may cause harmful interference to radio com-
munications. Operation of this equipment in a residential area is likely to cause harmful interfer-
ence in which case the user will be required to correct the interference at his own expense.

Note:

Taiwan:




Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004                                           55
Site Conditions



                   Temperature                       59-85 degrees Fahrenheit
                   Humidity                          30-75% (non-condensing)
                   Vibration                         Not to Exceed 0.05G RMS
                                                     5-200Hz
                   Ventilation                       A 4” clearance above and
                                                     behind the scanners venti-
                                                     lation duct is necessary
                   Lighting                          <1000 LUX ambient light
                   Noise                             < 70db(A)

Shipping and Storage Conditions
Temperature: -13 to 140 degrees Fahrenheit
Humidity: 30%-90% (non-condensing)

Fuse Ratings
    Only Pakon service technicians are qualified to replace fuses in the F-235 Scanner.


          Die Sicherungen im Scanner F-235 dürfen nur von Pakon-Servicetechnikern ausgetauscht werden.



         Seuls les techniciens du service d'entretien de Pakon sont qualifiés pour remplacer les
                                       fusibles du scanner F-235.



                                        Factory Fuse Rating

                                           3 Amps, 250V




Pakon Part#124794-I                    July 7, 2004                                                 56
                        Contacting Technical Support

When contacting support by phone, please follow these guidelines to ensure
timely assistance:
•   Have the computer and scanner on.
•   Have PSI F-235 loaded, if possible.
•   Have any reported error codes written down for quick reference.
•   Know the version of PSI being used. Click here for more information on this.
•   Know the serial number of your scanner.

If you prefer to email support, please include the following information in your
email request:
•   Any applicable error log files.
•   Version number of PSI.
•   Serial number of your F-235 scanner.
•   A sample image, if helpful.
•   Your company name and location.
•   Details on the problem and what has been attempted so far to resolve the problem.

Pakon Contact Information
Phone:
Within the United States - 877.217.2566
Outside the United States - 952.936.4390

Email:
support@pakon.com

On the Web:
http://www.pakon.com
ftp://ftp.pakon.com




PPakon Part#124794-I                 July 7, 2004                                       57
                       Important Part Numbers
                      Part Number             Description

                      123677         Motor Control Board
                      124987         USB Board
                      123685         CCD Power Module
                      123679         CCD Board
                      123689         Sensor Board
                      123691         LED Board (Digital ICE)
                      123816         Filter, Air
                      123817         Holder, Lamp
                      123819         Cooling Fan
                      124803         Blower Assembly
                      124558         Filter Wheel Assembly
                      124560         F-235 Film Path Assembly
                      124943         F-235+ Film Path Assembly
                      124559         Optical Tower Assembly
                      123840         Power Supply
                      123841         Bulb
                      123936         Cable Data
                      124805         Lamp Holder Assembly
                      123938         CCD Cable
                      123939         USB 2.0 Cable 6ft.
                      123687         Lamp Board Fan Assembly
                      124516         CCD Cable Power
                      124511-01      Cover, Film Entrance
                      125096         Calibration Kit
                      125097         Maxwell Calibration Kit




Pakon Part#124794-I               July 7, 2004                   58
                                             Index
Symbols
‘tilt’ adjustment 4
A
APS Cartridge Handling 15
APS film 2
APS LED 18
APS/35MM Film Gate Verification 47
APS/35MM Gate 42
B
BIOS Configuration 14
Black bar across top or bottom of image 53
Black images 52
C
Calibration 17
CCD assembly 3
CCD Stepper 42
CCD Stepper Test 46
Cleaning Illumination with Cotton Swab 21
Cleaning the Illumination with Compressed Air 19
Connection Diagram 7
Contents of Box 1
D
Digital ICE 18
Drive Motor Verification 47
driver software 13
Dust cleaning of illumination 19
DX code reading is not working 52
DX codes 15
DX Sensors 5
E
EC_WIN_SetProcessWorkingSetSize 50
Email 57
Error
   EC_PFS_FileSystemExists 50
Error 161 50
Error Code 1002 49
Error Code 1002 or 1006 49
Error Code 1006 49
Error Code 145 49
Error Code 3001 50
Error Code 3013 50
Error Codes 49



Pakon Part#124794-I                 July 7, 2004     59
Error Codes 126, 127, 128, and 129 49
Error Logs 49
F
Fan filter 26
Film Gate Change 17
Film Guides 5
Film Insertion 15
film track 3
Film Types and Variations 2
Filter Wheel 42
filter wheel 5
Filter Wheel Verification 47
Focus 17
Format Change 17
Fuse Ratings 56
H
Heavy Cyan or Brown Color Cast 54
I
Image is out of focus in part of frame 51
Images not Framed Properly 51
Images out of Focus 51
Images Stretched 51
Installing 12
Installing the F-235 12
L
Lamp 42
Lamp Current Running High 53
Lamp Error 16384 54
Lamp Verification 47
LED Board 39
LED board 52
LED Indicator Lights 18
Lens 4
lens alignment fixture 4
Lens Positioning Verification 47
Lens Stepper 42
Lens Stepper Test 46
Light Bulb Replacement 22
light shield 52
Light Source 2
M
Magnetic APS data not beind read 53
Magnetic APS data not being read 53
Minimum Host Computer Specifications 1
MOF Assembly 6


Pakon Part#124794-I                   July 7, 2004   60
MOF Head Cleaning 28
MOF heads 28
Motor 42
motor control 4
Motor Speed 51
Mounted slides 2
N
Noritsu 53
Noritsu 2611 53
Noritsu2611.txt 53
O
Operation 15
optical tower 3
P
Pakon Contact Information 57
PakonErrorLog 49
PCI Latency Timer 14
Phone 57
power cord 12
Power LED 18
Powering On 15
R
Regulatory Information 55
Removing Covers 30
Replacing the Blower Assembly 38
Replacing the CCD Board 40
Replacing the CCD Power Module 38
Replacing the Fan Filter 29
Replacing the Film Path Assembly 37
Replacing the Filter Wheel 36
Replacing the Lamp Board 32
Replacing the Lamp Board Fan 32
Replacing the Lamp Holder 34
Replacing the LED Board 39
Replacing the Motor Control Board 33
Replacing the USB Board 35
Resolutions 1
S
Scanner Theory 3
Scanner will not stop scanning. 50
Scanning stops 52
SCSI BIOS 14
Service and Repair 30
Setup1300 42
skew 3


Pakon Part#124794-I                  July 7, 2004   61
Skipping Lamp Warmup and Calibrations 49
Status LED 18
Surface Cleaning 25
T
Tilt Adjustment 51
Track Test 52
U
USB 2.0 hub 1
USB Board 5
W
Windows Customizations 14




Pakon Part#124794-I              July 7, 2004   62
