                               Scanner Specifications
Minimum Host Computer Specifications
•   Pentium IV or AMD Athlon CPU 1.7GHZ or higher
•   1 40GB hard drive to be used for the operating system, application programs, and storage. If
    IDE, it must be configured as primary master.
•   1 40GB hard drive capable of a sustained transfer rate of 30MB/sec. This is to be a dedicated
    drive for the scan data buffer. If IDE, it must be a secondary master drive. Drive letter must be
    N:\ and it must NOT be formatted. This should be a 7200rpm drive. See the “Disk Man-
    agement” chapter for more information on configuring this drive.
•   Windows 2000, Service Pack 2
•   512MB of RAM
•   A motherboard with an integrated USB 2.0 controller as part of the motherboard chipset. A
    dedicated port is recommended. USB 2.0 hubs have not been fully tested for reliability.
•   Separate AGP Graphics card. Using a motherboard with a built-in graphics card will be prob-
    lematic.
•   Motherboards with the following chipsets are recommended:


                                         Recommended
                                    Motherboards and Chipsets

                             Intel 845E
                             Intel 845GE
                             Intel 845G
                             Intel 845PE
                             Intel 845E
                             SIS 651
                             SIS 962
                             SIS 645DX
                             SIS 648
                             VIA VT8235 integrated USB controller

•   Microsoft USB 2.0 drivers.
•   Integrated video cannot be used. Use an add-on AGP video card.
•   SCSI CD-RW drive. (Plextor 12/10/32S recommended.)
•   1.5GB Pagefile.(Virtual Memory)




                                                 1
Power
•   Auto-switching power supply for 100-240VAC
•   50-60Hz Input voltage frequency
•   Standard 3 conductor IEC 320 male power cable connector

Contents of Box
•   F-235 Film Scanner
•   6ft. USB 2.0 Cable
•   Software and User Manual CD
•   Power Cord
•   Region Specific accessory pack, if applicable.

Size
•   17.3”W x 13.6”H x 12.6”D with cover on

Light Source
        The F-235 uses a 50 Watt Solux Halogen light bulb. During scans, the bulb operate at stan-
dard voltage. After completing a scan operation, the bulb power will be reduced to a lower volt-
age to increase the bulb’s life expectancy.

Film Types and Variations
•   The F-235 is designed to scan film in 35mm and 24mm (APS) formats. Color negative, color
    reversal (positive or slide) film, black and white, C-41 processed black and white films are all
    supported.
•   APS film can only be scanned once removed from the canister, but cannot be cut into strips.
    All APS formats (C, H, and P) will scan only in full frame (H) format.
•   35mm cut strips are supported in sizes from 2 frames to 41 frames. However, to ensure DX
    code reading, the strips must be a minimum of 3 frames.
•   Mounted slides are not supported.


DX Code Reading
•   35mm DX codes are read using the ISO 1007 specifications and are used by the host manager.
•   APS encoding will only be read by a full roll of film, and will not be read from an APS strip.




                                                 2
                                 Installing the F-235
The F-235 is a peripheral device. It cannot operate apart from a computer that meets the required
specifications listed on page 2 of this manual.

1. Clear a space near your computer system to place the F-235 scanner. The USB 2.0 cable must
   be able to reach the PC, so it cannot be more than 6 feet (2m) from the computer. There must
   also be 4 inches (10cm) clearance above and behind the scanner’s ventilation duct.

2. Connect the power cord to the power supply plug on the back of the scanner.




3. Connect the USB 2.0 cable to the back of the scanner.




4. Connect the USB 2.0 cable to the back of the computer, in a USB 2.0 port. Do not plug in to
   a USB 1.0 connector!




5. Insert the F235 software CD. Run ‘setup.exe’ from the CD-ROM drive.

6. While computer is on and Windows 2000 is loaded, turn the scanner power switch into the
   ‘on’ position.




                                                3
7. Insert F-235 Software CD. The computer will prompt the user to locate the driver software.
   This driver software is located on the CD in \Program Files\Pakon\F235Driver. This driver is
   also on the C:\ if the software has already been installed.




8. The install will ask for authorization to install the driver despite it not having been “digitally
   signed.” Yes must be selected for the driver to install.




9. After the driver is finished installing, verify that the scanner is recognized by viewing the
   scanner properties in the Device Manager under the heading, “Imaging Devices.”




                                                  4
BIOS Configuration
The following BIOS options are used on systems configured by Pakon, and are recommended to
be configured as outlined below:


                                      Option            Setting

                              Plug and Play            Disable
                              AGP Aperture Size        32
                              PCI Latency Timer        255
                              ACPI Suspend State       S1 State
                              USB Boot                 Disable
                              PXE Boot to Lan          Enable
                              PCI to DRAM Prefetch     Disable

SCSI BIOS Configuration
These settings should be followed in the SCSI BIOS of the SCSI card used in the Pakon computer
system.


                                      Option                Setting

                           Sync. Transfer Rates             10
                           Bootable CD-ROM                  Disable
                           BIOS Support for Int. 13 Ext.    Disable




                                               5
                            Operational Information
Operation
        When scanning film, ensure the appropriate film type is selected. Do not attempt to scan
35mm film when APS is selected, and likewise do not scan APS film when 35mm film has been
selected.
        Insert the film emulsion side-up, with the first frame first on the right side of the
scanner. This will ensure that the DX codes are read and that the framing will be done cor-
rectly.
        Do not attempt to remove film from the scanner while the scanner motor is moving! This
will cause damage to both the film and the scanner.

Calibration
       There are two types of calibration for the F-235.
       Color calibration is set during the manufacturing process, as well as any service that
involves the CCD or any optical filter. This is to be performed by trained and authorized service
personnel only.
       Scanner corrections are performed automatically. They consist of a series of steps per-
formed when the scanner is first turned on, as shown below:
• Start-up corrections
• Initial bulb warm-up
• Gain and exposure Control Corrections
• Run Time Corrections

Format Change
        The scanner will automatically change the film guide, lens position, CCD position, or
color filter position whenever one of the following steps take place:
• Film Format change between 35mm and APS
• Film type change between color negative, color reversal, and black and white
• Magnification Change (Change of scanning resolution)


Film Gate Change
        The film gate opens and closes depending on the size of the film being scanned. It will
open for 35mm film and close for APS film. This gate will open or close automatically when a
different film size is selected

Post Warm-Up
        The steppers will take less than 20 seconds to move the lens and CCD into proper position
for the selected focus position.




                                               6
LED Indicator Lights


                               Power LED      Function

                               Solid Green    +5V is functioning
                               Off            +5V is not functioning


                              Status LED                 Function

                            Solid Green         Scanner Ready
                            Blinking Green      Scanner is Scanning
                            Blinking Yellow     Scanner is Calibrating
                            Blinking Red        Scanner Error
                            Off                 Scanner not Functioning




                                  APS LED              Function

                            Solid Green        Scanner in APS mode
                            Blinking Green     Scanner is Scanning
                            Blinking Red       APS mode Error
                            Off                Scanner in 35MM mode

Digital ICE
        Digital ICE is designed to assist in removing scratches, dust, and debris artifacts from
scanned film. It should be used as a complement to a photo lab’s normal cleaning procedures.
Photo lab’s are still advised to clean the floors and work surfaces regularly.
        It is also recommended to clean all film with a lint-free cloth before attempting to make
prints 8”x10” or higher.
        If a lab is having persistent dust problems, it is recommended to perform the following
regularly:
        •Clean all customer film with a lint-free cloth before scanning it.
        •When the scanner is turned off, cover it with a plastic, or lint-free cover.
        •Use a lint-free cloth daily to clean the cover of the scanner and the surface of the table it
          is positioned on.
        •Clean or replace the air filter on the back of the scanner once per week.




                                                  7
                                Operator Maintenance
Warning: These procedures require the operator to remove up to two of the three covers on
the scanner. Do not attempt to operate the scanner without these covers properly in place!


       WARNUNG: Bei diesen Verfahren muss der Bediener bis zu zwei der drei Abdeckungen am Scanner
       entfernen. Der Scanner darf nicht betrieben werden, wenn diese Abdeckungen nicht ordnungsgemäß
       angebracht sind!



       ATTENTION : au cours de ces procédures, vous devez ôter deux des trois couvercles du
       scanner. N'essayez pas de faire fonctionner le scanner sans que ces couvercles de
       protection soient correctement à leur place !


Dust cleaning of illumination
        The F-235 is a precision optical device. A relatively smoke and dust free environment is
necessary. The scanner must be cleaned periodically to remove large collections of dust or debris
inside the scanner, on the illumination. This procedure is recommended to be performed every
two weeks. Software is designed to compensate for smaller collections of dust or debris, but
cleaning may be required. Digital ICE is only designed to complement the lab’s normal cleaning
procedures--which should include cleaning the floor and work surfaces regularly.
        Follow each step by a verification process to determine if the cleaning was effective. If the
verification determines that level of cleaning was ineffective, the next level is required.

1. Simple cleaning with compressed air and or lens brushes.
2. Cleaning with rubbing alcohol and a cotton swab.
3. Service call.

Cleaning the Illumination with Compressed Air
1. Turn off the scanner.
2. Disconnect the USB and power cables.
3. Gently remove the side panel of scanner, by pulling back on it. It should snap out of place.




                                                    8
  Do not touch anything inside the scanner while the power is on. The cover is only off to
                  allow dust and debris to be blown out of the scanner.


       WARNUNG: Berühren Sie keine Bauteile innerhalb des Scanners, während das Gerät eingeschaltet ist. Die
         Abdeckung wird nur deshalb abgenommen, damit Staub und Verschmutzungen aus dem Inneren des
                                   Scanners heraus geblasen werden können.



         ATTENTION : ne touchez aucun élément interne du scanner lorsque ce dernier est sous
        tension. Le couvercle est ouvert pour permettre d'éliminer poussière et débris du scanner.
4. Connect power to the scanner.
5. Turn the scanner on.
6. Remove the small film path cover.




7. Aim the hose of a can of compressed air into the film path--aiming for the clear piece of glass
   in the middle.


                                                    9
8. It may be beneficial to insert a strip of film into the scanner before blowing it out. This will
    focus all the air onto the light transfer bar, and should dislodge any dust or debris.
9. When finished, put the film path cover back in place.
       Turn off the scanner immediately when finished cleaning the scanner!
10. Turn off the scanner and unplug the power cable.
11. Replace the side cover by snapping into place.
12. Plug in the USB and power cables.

Cleaning Illumination with Cotton Swab
       CAUTION--Be Careful not to scratch or damage the top of the glass light bar!
1. Turn off the scanner.
1. Disconnect the USB and power cables.
2. Gently remove the side cover.
3. Using a long cotton swab, dabbed in isopropyl alcohol, clean the illumination bar inside the
   film track assembly.
4. The illumination bar is a small piece of glass, sitting upright.




                                                10
5. After cleaning the illumation bar, replace side cover and turn on.

Light Bulb Replacement
        The light bulb will have a nominal life of 100 working days or longer, depending on cer-
tain variables. This number is based on the following assumptions:
• 6 working days per week
• 10hours per day

       Changing the light bulb does not require any special tools.


Replacing the Scanner Light Bulb
 CAUTION: The lamp may be hot. Allow the bulb to cool before attempting to replace it.
   Use gloves when replacing the scanner light bulb. Fingerprints can damage the light
                                          bulb.


        VORSICHT: Die Lampe kann heiß sein. Lassen Sie die Glühlampe abkühlen, bevor Sie sie austauschen.
         Berühren Sie die Scanner-Glühlampe nur mit Handschuhen. Fingerabdrücke können die Glühlampe
                                                 beschädigen.



            ATTENTION : l'ampoule risque d'être chaude. Attendez qu'elle refroidisse avant
         d'essayer de la remplacer. Utilisez des gants pour remplacer l'ampoule du scanner. Les
                               empreintes digitales peuvent l'endommager.




                                                  11
1.   Close all scanning software.
2.   Turn off the scanner.
3.   Disconnect the USB and power cables.
4.   Gently remove the side cover by pulling on it. It should snap out of place.




5. Gently pull off the back cover. It should snap off much like the side cover.




6. Locate the small lever, just to the back of the bulb.




                                                 12
        Gloves must be worn to ensure the bulb is not damaged by dirt or skin oils.
7. With one hand, gently pull the lever towards the back of the scanner.
8. As the lever is pulled, the bulb will be pushed up, and partially out of its wire harness.
9. Once the bulb has been pushed up far enough, use your other hand to gently remove the bulb
    from the harness.
10. Orient the new light bulb so that the largest, or widest part of the bell shape is facing the front
    of the scanner. And place the smaller end with the prongs, facing the back.
11. Rest the wide end of the bulb on the top edge of the wire harness, do not push or force it
    downward.
12. Spin or rotate the bulb so that the two prongs line up with the grooves in the lamp ballast.




13. Gently apply downward pressure equally to both the front and the back of the bulb.
14. Slide the bulb into place, until it fits securely.
15. Replace the back cover by snapping it into place.


                                                  13
16. Replace the side cover by snapping it back into place.
17. Plug in USB and power cables.
18. Turn scanner on, and allow to warm up before using again.


                                Cleaning the Fan Filter
      The fan filter collects dust from inside the scanner. This filter needs to be cleaned every
two weeks.

1. Close scanner software.
2. Turn off the scanner.
3. Disconnect USB and power cables.
4. Gently remove side cover by pulling on it. It should snap off.
5. Gently remove back cover by pulling on it. It too, should snap off.
Be Careful not to touch anything other than the fan and filter assembly. Many pieces on the
             back of the scanner will be hot to the touch, and are to be avoided.


           VORSICHT: Berühren Sie keine Bauteile, mit Ausnahme des Ventilators und der Filter. Zahlreiche
              Bauteile an der Rückseite des Scanners sind heiß und dürfen daher nicht berührt werden.



        ATTENTION : ne touchez rien d'autre que le module ventilateur et filtre. De nombreux
             éléments situés à l'arrière du scanner sont chauds, évitez de les toucher.
6. Locate the Fan filter (123816). It is located on the back of the scanner, just under the plastic
   fan cover.




                                                    14
7. Pull straight back on the plastic fan cover until it comes free from the scanner housing.




8. Remove the filter from inside the cover, and rinse with tap water; replace if necessary.




                                                15
9. Re-attach the fan cover by applying moderate pressure to each of the four sides, until it snaps
   back in to place.

Cleaning the Film Track
       It is recommended to clean the film track every two weeks, along with the illumination.
cleaning. Keeping the film track clean will ensure that DX code reading remains reliable. It will
also maintain the proper motor speed for each resolution.
1. Remove the film path cover.
2. Position the tip of the compressed air hose on both sides of the film track entrance, and blow.




3. Position the tip of the compressed air hose on both sides of the film track exit, and blow.




4. After cleaning the film track, run the ‘Film Track Test’ in the client interface program.
5. Verify the scanner is properly reading DX codes by scanning a roll of film.



                                                16
Surface Cleaning
        Clean surfaces with lint-free cloths or mild, non-abrasive spray type cleaners, where the
cleaner is sprayed onto the cleaning cloth and not directly onto the equipment. Perform this type
of cleaning only with the equipment disconnected and powered down.




                                               17
                             Regulatory Information




Warning:
        This is a class A product. In a domestic environment this product may cause radio interfer-
ence in which case the user may be required to take adequate measures.

Note:
        This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class A digital
device, pursuant to part 15 of the FCC rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable pro-
tection against harmful interference when the equipment is operated in a commercial environ-
ment. This equipment generates, uses and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed
and used in accordance with the instruction manual, may cause harmful interference to radio com-
munications. Operation of this equipment in a residential area is likely to cause harmful interfer-
ence in which case the user will be required to correct the interference at his own expense.

Note:


Japan:




       English Translation:
       This is a Class A product. In a domestic environment this product may cause radio inter-
ference in which case the user may be required to take adequate measures. VCCI-A


Taiwan:




                                                18
Site Conditions



                   Temperature                       59-85 degrees Fahrenheit
                   Humidity                          30-75% (non-condensing)
                   Vibration                         Not to Exceed 0.05G RMS
                                                     5-200Hz
                   Ventilation                       A 4” clearance above and
                                                     behind the scanners venti-
                                                     lation duct is necessary
                   Lighting                          <1000 LUX ambient light
                   Noise                             < 70db(A)

Shipping and Storage Conditions
Temperature: -13 to 140 degrees Fahrenheit
Humidity: 30%-90% (non-condensing)

Fuse Ratings
    Only Pakon service technicians are qualified to replace fuses in the F-235 Scanner.


          Die Sicherungen im Scanner F-235 dürfen nur von Pakon-Servicetechnikern ausgetauscht werden.



         Seuls les techniciens du service d'entretien de Pakon sont qualifiés pour remplacer les
                                       fusibles du scanner F-235.



                                        Factory Fuse Rating

                                           3 Amps, 250V




                                                  19
                                         Index
A
APS film 3
APS LED 8
B
BIOS 6
C
Calibration 7
Cleaning Illumination with Cotton Swab 11
Cleaning the Illumination with Compressed Air 9
Contents of Box 3
D
driver software 5
Dust cleaning of illumination 9
DX codes 7
F
Fan filter 15
Film Gate Change 7
Film Types and Variations 3
Focus 7
Format Change 7
Fuse Ratings 18
I
Installing 4
Installing the F-235 4
L
latency timer 6
LED Indicator Lights 8
Light Bulb Replacement 12
Light Source 3
M
Minimum Host Computer Specifications 2
Mounted slides 3
O
Operation 7
P
power cord 4
Power LED 8
R
Regulatory Information 17
Replacing the Fan Filter 16
S
Status LED 8
Surface Cleaning 15



                                            20
U
USB 2.0 hub 2




                21
